Title: Bootstrap
Date: 2012-11-25T00:47-06:00
Tags: Technology, Programming, Bootstrap, CSS
Slug: bootstrap
Authors: Britt Gresham

I was apart of a team consisting of a few of my coworkers that went out and
competed in the Compute Midwest Hackathon a few weeks ago and It was really
awesome getting to learn and see what everyone else was piecing together with
the Api's. My coworkers had mentioned Twitter's Bootstrap to me before a few
weeks earlier but I had not taken it seriously and just dismissed it as a hard
to learn library that I was not going to spend much time looking at. That was a
big mistake for me, because I now realize how powerful it really is. I started
using bootstrap at the Hackathon and realized that I was putting together a
very professional looking site in moments because of its built-in styles. All
of the time spent trying and create a top navigation bar with plain CSS could
have been spent thinking about something else instead. Bootstrap essentially
takes the thinking out of design for developers by giving them this CSS
framework. It has its own tile system that is very easy to learn. Each page
is separated into different rows and spans. Each row can contain 11 spans and
the spans can be all different sizes as long as they add up to a total of 11 in
the row. Sidebars and the main content body can be completely done in a matter
of seconds instead of having to worry about how in the world you float this div
element over to the left and keep the main content to right right of it and
doing it dynamically or for a mobile phone. It's just stupid easy.

Now I'm finally getting into some other libraries that have been mentioned to
me and I'm slowly realizing that these libraries are really here to make my
life easier, sure I need to know how the library works but it is much better to
learn a little library with a professional end result than to try and write
everything yourself and have it be half-assed. I really do have the tendencies
of a student, always sticking to the book and writing it all myself. I should
try and break that as soon as possible.
