Title: IRC Is Wonderful
Date: 2012-08-24T20:33-06:00
Tags: Technology, IRC, Self Help
Slug: irc-is-wonderful
Authors: Britt Gresham

If you were to go up to someone in my generation and ask, "What are your
thoughts on IRC?", I'm willing to bet that 99.9% would not have any idea what
you were talking about. This is a complete shame in my opinion! For my fellow
Generation-Y's out there, here is what IRC is. Imagine you are stuck on a
difficult chemistry problem on a late Sunday night. All of your Facebook
friends are also stuck on the same problem so there is no help there. Wait just
one moment, you remember that you have a genie lamp in your closet. You begin
to have serious doubts about it actually working but you continue anyways as a
placebo to calm the nerves and frustrations that have been building up deep
within your hatred for the class. As you rub the dust off to reveal the luster
of the gold lamp a being comes forth from the lamp and without having to ask he
teaches you everything you need to know about the class. Hell, he even does
your homework for you! It was really that easy!

Yes, IRC is that great. It is basically a chatroom that is built for anything
and it has been around forever. There are different 'Channels' that you can
subscribe to, each one is tailored to an individual topic or no topic at all,
its really up to you to decide. Hundreds of thousands of channels ranging from
\#\#chemistry, \#\#math, \#cars, \#\#horticulture, \#bitcoin, \#\#python, ect.
Each one with someone who probably knows the topic better than you do. You can
go into a channel and join the discussion. You can ask questions and get
answers or read along as other people have questions that you could possibly
answer to help further someones knowledge.

Now that you are somewhat acclimated to the idea of IRC i'm going to tell you
my experiences and provide a challenge. Today I was at work when I joined the
\#\#python channel on irc.freenode.net. I'd figure i'd keep it open just in
case I needed help with the project I was working on. Checking the channel
periodically I noticed that one of the people in the room was having issues
with SqlAlchemy, an object relational mapping library I had been learning since
my time started at NIC as a DevOps Intern. His problem was something that I had
once ran into when I had first started to grasp the concepts of what ORM really
was. The issue was not related to the database but just about everything
pointed there. I pitched my two cents in and it sparked a large discussion on
how to fix the problem that he was facing. I got back to work but checked back
on the discussion every once in a while just to make sure that he was being
helped and not just left alone. With my nudge in the right direction we, as a
whole, were able to solve his problem in no time. Even giving him some sample
code to replace the faulty code in his project with. It was really cool to see
how a puzzle could be put together when I handed everyone the big picture.
Which is what I want to challenge you guys today with. Go join an IRC channel,
any channel really, and try to solve a question posed by another IRC member.
Even if it means going out of your way to do so. The rewarding feeling of
helping a complete stranger with a difficult problem is definitely worth it!
